Per-player maximum health and breath synchronization

Scope
PLAYER_VITALS uses reliable SYSTEM ordering with existing connection lifecycle
notifications. Those legacy payloads are unchanged. The server validates the
registered sender, claimed slot, finite/ranged values and monotonic sequence;
it stamps a monotonic connection generation and caches each peer independently.
Join replay sends identity before a full sample. No session maxima or saved
player identities are added. Existing fourteen-float weapon stats and their
three reserved zero fields are unchanged.

Native storage and verified envelope
PlayerInfo::m_nMaxHealth is an independent byte, 1..255. CPed::m_fMaxHealth is
an independent finite float, 1..255; the fields need not match. PlayerData stores
remaining m_fBreath. Stock CStats modifier 8 computes capacity as
1000 + (int lung-capacity stat 225 + float stamina stat 22) * .0005 * 3000.
Both stock stats cap at 1000, giving capacity 1000..4000. The protocol allows
1000..4001 to cover float rounding. Remaining air must be finite, 0..capacity.
Finite native refill overshoot/negative transient is clamped only before send;
non-finite/out-of-envelope receive data is rejected without clamping.

The compatible executable's getter at 0x559AF0 dispatches modifier 8 to
0x559DE4 and modifier 9 to 0x559E05. Modifier 9 scales max-health stat 24 by
.001 * 176. Native HUD health divides by PlayerInfo's byte maximum; breath
divides by modifier 8. SDK declarations and gta-reversed PlayerPed/Hud source
agree on storage. Executable disk SHA256:
A559AA772FD136379155EFA71F00C47AAD34BBFEAE6196B0FE1047D0645CBD26.
No game executable bytes or extracted native code are committed.

Application and visible state
Only the initialized, pool-valid real local player is sampled with focus zero.
The local getter supplies that owner's capacity; no remote stats are polled.
Remote data is buffered on its network wrapper before ped spawn. Application
checks the full ped reference, registered wrapper and correct remote PlayerInfo
binding. It sets remote ped max health, that remote slot's maximum and remaining
breath, and restores them after native control. Native current health is not
fabricated or rewritten by this feature. Name-tag and player-list health fractions
use the owner's PlayerInfo maximum; blue air fractions use the owner's cached
capacity and are shown for submerged or depleted-air state. Local HUD remains native.

Global lung/stamina/max-health CStats are never changed. Raw lung skill and
native swimming progression, drowning timing and bubble effects are not rewritten.
Remote remaining air is an owner-authored representation; this is not a claim
that all native swimming computations now use per-player skill context.

Reproduction
python tests/run_player_vitals_tests.py --suite codec --output .cache/<new name>
python tests/run_player_vitals_tests.py --suite service --output .cache/<new name>
The runner freezes/hashes real headers and service/renderer source, uses the real
serializer, and extracts unchanged actual service, binding and bar bodies. Native
storage/transport/rendering are recorded doubles, not a replacement synchronization
algorithm. Actual SDK client/server builds are separate evidence. Root must rerun
against final enum/config and combine the registry repair with packet-buffer Clear.

Human checklist for root's matched final package
- Two players with different maximum health: each remote health fraction is correct.
- Dive with different lung/stamina progress: each blue bar follows its owner's air.
- Air depletion/recovery, infinite-oxygen toggle, death and respawn.
- Join before native spawn, then start New Game: metadata applies when spawned.
- Disconnect/reconnect into a reused server slot: no old wrapper, actor or vitals.
- Mission camera/control changes and vehicle driving: local stats remain unchanged.
- Check visible row spacing at supported resolutions and multiplayer latency.
Source tests/SDK compilation do not prove native ABI execution, visuals or ENet timing.
