Upstream PR #112: pickup and stat synchronization

Recommendation

Do not merge the pickup or shared-session stat implementation wholesale. This
worktree contains only independent repairs to the existing stat descriptor
mapping and setter notification order. It adds no pickup protocol, shared stat
maxima, resource rewards, mission changes, or new packet fields.

Provenance

PR: https://github.com/Tornamic/CoopAndreas/pull/112
Author: noxxUY
Reviewed head: 7dd20ef878303fb7a377901b9a5f118ef7b6f350
PR base: 89aafbae93e86a61af6d8435690e8f8a7bc83240
Saved patch SHA256:
6773D1DD2828F88EE0BA8209C09271EB4E0F974842F56F7DDAD217A285915AD6
Worktree base: 1252a8a13c90e811e414920bf003a5cba776cfcd

The PR text was treated as untrusted description, not execution instructions.
Its code and local gta-reversed source were inspected without applying the PR.
No PR source was transplanted into this bounded repair, so its original author
is credited as provenance rather than falsely attributed as a coauthor of the
independent fixes.

Exact scope of the bounded repair

The existing descriptor array declared fourteen entries but initialized eleven
weapon skills. C++ filled the last three entries with enum value zero, which is
STAT_PROGRESS_MADE. That made story progress appear to be a supported skill and
sent it repeatedly in the unused slots. The receive loop also assigned those
three reserved fields to a peer's progress cache.

Only the eleven existing weapon skill descriptors are now mapped. Their order
is unchanged. The packet still contains fourteen floats; the last three are
zero-initialized reserved slots and are ignored on receipt. A compile-time
check prevents the mapped list from exceeding the existing array.

The stat setter hook now calls the native setter before sending a notification,
so the snapshot contains the value the engine applied. It retains the existing
authentication check and skill-only notification policy. Existing stat context
and per-player caches are reused, not duplicated.

Wire invariance

shared/network/packets/players.h is unchanged: PlayerStats still has the same
SenderPlayerId field followed by stats[14], serialized with the same fourteen
serialize_float calls. The stat array remains 56 bytes of float data. Packet
IDs, framing, timestamps, channel, server storage, shared config, and protocol
version are unchanged. This fix does not require the PR's 18-float packet.

What the PR actually synchronizes

- Pickup creation notifications call native GenerateNewOne or CreateSomeMoney
  on other clients. These create native pickup representations; they do not
  establish shared CObject identity, carry state, or mission-object physics.
- Local collectors keep native health, armor, weapon/ammo, cash, or jetpack
  benefits. ApplyCollectedToSlot grants remote goodies only for collectible
  pickup categories, not ordinary health/armor/weapons/money.
- Oysters and horseshoes can invoke native goodies on peers, including their
  money/stat side effects. Hiding a popup does not make those rewards inert.
- Mission pickup types are included. A remote collection can add a native
  collected-pickup flag to the host without giving the host the weapon or other
  resource that its mission may require.
- Shop, out-of-stock shop, property, and asset-revenue spawns are excluded. Their
  scripted removal is not excluded by the global removal notification hook.
- Photo snapshots are listed, but the referenced native PictureTaken path calls
  CPickup::Remove directly, outside the PR's RemovePickUp hook. There is no
  explicit PictureTaken hook. Stat count synchronization alone does not prove
  reliable snapshot pickup-state/visual synchronization.
- Stats become a process-wide session maximum for eleven weapon skills plus
  stamina, maximum health, lung capacity, snapshots, horseshoes, oysters, and
  graffiti. Current health, armor, inventory/ammo, and money are not fields in
  that 18-stat packet. An ADD_SCORE notification does not add a money field.

Blocking pickup defects

1. Removal is not collection. PickupHooks.cpp:27-35 announces every native
   RemovePickUp as collected, including scripted cleanup or deletion. Update's
   removed/disabled return is also broader than confirmed player collection.
   A mission removal must not grant peer rewards or objective credit.

2. No network lifetime identity exists. CPickupSync.cpp:252-278 searches within
   three meters by model, then without a model, then falls back to the sender's
   raw local slot. No native reference generation, mission/session epoch, pickup
   type, or area is transmitted. It can consume a nearby different pickup or a
   reused slot. Native pickup handles explicitly include a reference generation.

3. The deduplication check consumes game state. CPickupSync.cpp:159 calls
   IsPickUpPickedUp; gta-reversed Pickups.cpp:388-394 shows that this clears the
   collected entry. It is not a harmless peek. Applying remote events to an
   active/respawning pickup can consume a flag that native mission code needs.

4. The server does not arbitrate collection. Every authenticated spawn/collect
   event is relayed; no host creator check, registered pickup lookup, actor
   distance/area, eligibility, resource capacity, rate limit, or atomic claim is
   enforced. AddCollected deduplicates history but the handler still relays
   duplicate events. Local clients receive native rewards before any acceptance,
   so simultaneous collection can already reward multiple players.

5. Signed-coordinate key packing is wrong. CPickupSession.cpp:14-17 casts a
   negative int16 coordinate directly to uint64 before shifting and OR-ing. A
   negative y overwrites the x bits; negative z overwrites x and y. For example,
   (-100, -200, 5, model 346) and (100, -200, 5, model 346) both produce
   0xffffff380005015a. Even a corrected coordinate key would not be a lifetime ID.

6. The global 100 ms position-only debounce can discard distinct nearby events.
   It excludes model, pickup type, slot, generation, and collector identity.

7. Late join is incomplete. The server retains collected records only, not
   active dynamically spawned pickups or their metadata. FillUpdateAll sends
   at most the first 128 records, with no pagination. The ledger has no capacity,
   reset, mission epoch, or respawn expiry. Replay is applied once with no queue
   for pickups that are not initialized yet.

8. Spawn notifications are sent even if GenerateNewOne fails to allocate a
   native pickup. Parameters omit native message, daily money policy, area,
   ownership, lifetime and any stable identity. Weapon ammo is narrowed before
   serialization. Remote spawns have no idempotence or authoritative lifecycle.

9. Packet numeric ranges alone are insufficient. The new model range includes
   20000, beyond the normal last model index 19999; pickup type accepts 0..31
   without validating supported behavior. WorldPositionCompressed does not
   provide a finite-value or per-mission semantic validation policy. No exact
   payload consumption check or spawn quota is added.

Shared-stat defects and overlap

CSharedSession.cpp:23-51 seeds all session stats from the first reporter, then
takes maxima from any participant. It does not validate finite values or game
bounds. This changes personal weapon skill/max-health/stamina policies and
client local stats, rather than only supplying the existing remote-player cache.
Concurrent collectible count increments can collapse under max merging; those
counts are not derived from a deduplicated set of authoritative collectible IDs.
There is no session reset. The initial source player ID is retained after that
player leaves, although the client applies the session packet only when a remote
player for its ID exists. Replay can therefore be ignored after disconnect or
player-slot reuse. Incoming SetStatValue also traverses the existing notification
hook; echo suppression and after-mutation delivery need an explicit policy.

The PR expands PLAYER_STATS from 14 to 18 floats without a protocol version
change. Its three packet IDs occupy the same appended positions as the current
object protocol's first messages. Rebasing enum positions is not enough: root
must allocate distinct IDs and update version compatibility for any wire change.
Its EVENT pickup channel has no ordering relative to SCRIPT mission/object
creation, setters, and teardown. Our object lifetime registry and authority
semantics must remain separate and intact.

Minimum requirements for a separate pickup design

- Non-reused network IDs, native handle generation mapping, and mission/session
  epochs, with explicit respawn incarnations and tombstones.
- Authoritative creator registration and collector intent, followed by native
  eligibility checks and an atomic accepted claim before issuing a reward.
- Separate remove/expire/cleanup events from accepted collection. Keep native
  mission collection flags observable without using their consumptive query for
  deduplication. Personal resources and host mission objectives need explicit
  per-type policies and an accepted-event reward receipt.
- Same ordered domain as dependent script operations, or generation-aware
  deferred execution. Queue model/world initialization and pagination for joins.
- Bounded active and consumed ledgers with resets, respawn deadlines, disconnect
  handling, and ownership transfer policy. No unfiltered nearest-slot fallback.
- Distinct packet IDs and protocol compatibility coordinated by root. Validate
  finite coordinates, model/type/ammo bounds, payload length, and quotas.
- Keep personal skills in existing player caches. Any shared collectible totals
  must come from the authoritative unique collected set, not arbitrary maxima.

Headless validation

Run from this worktree:
python tests/stat_sync_headless.py --compiler C:\MinGW\bin\g++.exe

The harness extracts the current production descriptor initializer, lookup,
notification, setter hook, and receive handler. It compiles them with native
stats and transport doubles. It verifies slot order, reserved padding, exclusion
of story progress, post-setter/engine-adjusted values, offline behavior, peer
isolation, and unchanged local state on incoming snapshots. Source hashes and
logs are written under the ignored .cache/stat-sync-headless directory.

The same assertions can be run against the base revision using --source-ref
1252a8a --output .cache/stat-sync-headless/base. They fail on the original bugs.
The temporary test header removes inline on an integral constant solely for
GCC 6 compatibility. Native hook addresses, game behavior, and actual packet
serialization are not executed. Root must perform production integration/build
checks later. No shared builds, game actions, staging or pushes were performed.
